---
layout: default
title: Push to start
image: /img/beach.jpg
tags: recent
---

<span class="singleChar">How to start learning how to program</span>
<br>
I've tried to learn how to program a few times and each time after a couple weeks I would move on to something else. I was just going about it the wrong way and I didn’t know where to start. There are so many different languages, areas of the field, educational sites, and books that it became overwhelming. And even when I had found something I liked it was hard to stick with it due to a lack of structure. So this last go around I got serious; I did the research, found the right resources, built myself a learning plan, and last but not least discovered my learning style. All this with a dash of motivation totally crushed my previous failed attempts. Here is how I started the right way:
<br>
<br>
<span class="singleChar">Resourcefulness</span>
<br>
First, I researched and googled the heck out of the phrase "learn how to code". I went through dozens of articles, website reviews, and videos. It's magnificent how far online education has come; you can literally learn anything on the Internet. Did you know that big name universities like Harvard and Stanford offer a lot of their course material(with videos of the actual lectures) on iTunes university for FREE! So I took notes and jotted down all the different courses. Next I went through and tested the ones out that looked interesting and ended up sticking with 2 main learning courses. The first was Harvard's famous CS50 course(intro to computer science). This course is offered on their website, iTunes university, and many other places. It's a great place to start especially if your an absolute beginner like me. It goes over programming principles and really helps you establish an overall foundation of what we can do with computers. At the same time, I also signed up for the web development track on teamtreehouse.com. Treehouse is one of the many online coding schools that offers hundreds of videos, and code challenges to aid you in your learning. I chose treehouse because they have a good mix of instructors that really teach the best practices within the industry. Most of them have free trials; so go try a few and then pick the one you like the most. Taking both the CS50 course and front end dev course has really helped me to see the bigger picture as apposed to just taking the front end course. In most cases, I’ve been able to use what I've learned in one course to help me solve problems in the other. The researching phase is where the road starts and is very important. Make sure to spend the time to try different things and discover what you like. However, it's very easy to spend too much time on this step; so after you've picked a few resources to learn from, just start learning.
<br>
<br>
<span class="singleChar">Plan to Execute</span>
<br>
After I found my pools of knowledge I realized in order for me to stick with it on a continual basis I needed to set up a learning schedule. Both courses outline the material and how long they expect each section will take to go through. I used Trello (a planning app) and created a “programming learning board.” For each course, I made a list of all the sections I wanted to learn along with the time it would take to learn it. Every week I moved the sections I planned on learning that week into a ‘learning this week” list. Then every day I would move a couple of those sections into “learning today” list. Finally after I had completed a section I would move it into a “learned” list. Trello makes all of this extremely easy and helps you to visualize your learning plan. At the beginning of every day, I knew which sections I had to complete and if I was having an off day I would pick something that seemed more enjoyable to learn. Then I would set a time each day dedicated to learning. This is usually in the evenings after the little ones are in bed. Since I have a full-time job and a family I have to clearly communicate to others my schedule and  become extremely efficient with my time. I no longer get sucked into the internet searching black hole, excessively watch TV, and other time wasting activities.  But, to be honest, I really enjoy this and most days I have to force myself to put down the code and go to bed. At the end of every week, I review my learning board, pat myself on the back for the sections I’ve learned and make commitments to do better on the ones I missed. All this planning makes executing a lot easier.
<br>
<br>
<span class="singleChar">Discover your inner learner</span>
<br>
"I remember that I don't remember" a problem I faced in my previous attempts would be remembering what I had just learned. I would go through the sections, watch the videos, do the coding challenges and then a couple weeks later I would have a hard time remembering. Initially, I think it's harder because everything is so foreign and you're still trying to figure out the "why" to things. This time around however I did two things differently. First I used a flash card system called Anki. After each video I would set up a flash card on the most important things like how to set media queries or "how can you add an event listener using JavaScript". The great thing about Anki is that as you start studying the cards and telling Anki which ones are easy, Anki will then only have you study which ones you're struggling with. It's the best tool to help you memorize in the beginning. The second adjustment I made was I picked a side project to work on alongside the course. So as I learned key concepts I was able to instantaneously apply them to a real-world problem. This is what has helped progress the fastest. There's truth in the famous Chris Coyier saying " just build websites". The more we use the things we learn the more ingrained they become. The key is that I had to discover what was going to help me retain the valuable gold I was learning.  You can implement anything you want: projects, taking notes, creating flash cards, making presentations, or finding a group. The best part is at the end of the day I'm in charge of my own learning development and I can easily adjust my style based on what I'm trying to learn.
<br>
<br>
Resourcefulness, preparation, reflection: these are the three solid pillars I have built the rest of my learning development on.  In a job and in life one of the most important strengths to have is to be able to learn new things and to learn them quickly! Untill next time.....
