---
layout: default
title: And so it begins...
image: /img/path.jpg
---


<span class="singleChar">I'm not a blogger</span>
<br>
Whether you're a friend, family or a stranger somehow you've managed to find this blog and I'm very glad you've decided to poke around. You won't regret it. This is my first time blogging and if you have ever blogged before you might feel how I feel right now: The extreme pride that I felt after working hours on hours building and finally finishing this blog was short lived once it was time to produce content. How is it easier to code a blog than it is to write a simple blog post? That's what I asked my wife and her response was "well then why did you spend all that time building something you're not good at?" She was right. However, the only reason why I'm not good at this is because I've never done it before. And the only way to get good at something is to just do it. So here I am and here you are. Let me give you a little Intro to my life and the main reason why I've started blogging.
<br>
<br>
<span class="singleChar">So what am I?</span>
<br>
 I was grown in southern California, matured in NorthWest Arkansas, and am currently discovering myself in Salt Lake City. I'm a husband to an amazing woman and a father to two beautiful children. Professionally, I've been a business analyst(I try to make sense of all the data our world is filled with ) for the past 4 years. It was my first "big boy" job and I've learned a lot from the various roles, companies, and co-workers I've had the pleasure to work with. Whenever someone asks me what I do for fun I kinda laugh and say well I have two kids, so whatever they want to do is what I do. My wife tells me my free time is when I'm at work, as funny as that is, she has the hardest Job as a stay at home mom, you never really get to punch out as a mother. But, I do like playing and watching sports, exploring the outdoors and finding the little hole in the wall restaurants that serve amazing food. Just like most people I've had trials, made mistakes and taken steps backward but, I wouldn't change a thing and I continue to learn and look forward.
 <br>
 <br>
 <span class="singleChar">What I'm trying to be</span>
 <br>
 So what does a boring data analyst that sucks at blogging have to write about?
 I've always been interested in programming and technology. I remember back in high school I would add HTML and CSS to my myspace account to make it super awesome. I had no idea what I was really doing but, I liked doing it and it was fun. So, for the past 4 years I've dabbled in code and have started and stopped different projects and websites. I would always get too busy or distracted on something else and would stop learning. Ever since leaving the nest I've been trying to find out not only what I want to do with my life but, what will I enjoy doing 9-5 every day? I've tried a lot of different things but, I always kept coming back to programming. So finally in December I promised myself and my wife that I would give it a honest go and that I would give it a 110%. Since then I've learned a ton about programming and web development, have found that this is what I'm good at and want to do, and have made some pretty cool things. The great thing is that it has cost very little and has been self-taught with some help from others. I've started learning C, HTML, CSS, Javascript, and Ruby. Most of my time has been spent learning web development but, I'm still exploring all types of programming to find out what I really like. By the end of the year, I hope to deploy an app both for IOS and Android. I love programming and hope one day soon to be able to either land a job in the industry or to start something of my own.
 <br>
 <br>
 <span class="singleChar">Why it matters</span>
 <br>
  The last few months have been some of the most rewarding months of my life and I hope to continue to learn and more importantly give back to this awesome community. The main reason I've created this blog is to share my experiences, struggles, and the incredible things I've been able to build. And hopefully through this blog I can help those who are unsure how to get started on this path to becoming a programming wizard. So feel free to follow me and ask questions on Twitter and Github.
